Notes on TC’s peformance in senior behavioral interview mock session ( SUN, AUG 16th, 2025 ) :

Questions 

Tell me about yourself. What are your career goals.

Herself
She’s a full stack engineer.
Contributions in Security Org : combat IRS fraud ; bad actors millions transactions.
Worked with CosmosDB, Redis, CSharp
	Reduced 60% fraud B2B and 25% B2C scenarios

Drove GDPR and Privacy compliance at MSFT
and part of on-call rotation.

Goals 
Wants to be technically strong with good systems understandings
Be up-to-date with tech space
Be able to help people and lead projects


Walk me through a project that you delivered successfully.

IRSF fraud fighting
LFM job to click and upload - 


Before - LFM job ( on-call/service eng - we used to check dboard for spikes  ). They’re run LFM jobs to look at patterns and update redis caches and recc allow/block to users

She identified a gap - have a service that updates the cache - to avoid manual efforts, put a worker.
There’s a routine thing done. 
	
	Single IP address- 1K requests, no SMS consumed.
	Analyzed history ( 30 days to 90 days ) zero SMSs consumed.
	

She’s getting to technically deep -> please stick to the question


She led the effort and contributed to it : a cron job every 15 mins look back 30 days update Redis Configs.

Why can’t we automatic and reduce manual efforts.
I saw the potential of a configurable periodic service/worker/stateless service/cronjob that I could query, based on criteria ( all the vectors ) against Gusto 30 days or 90 days , to reduce efforts by 50%.

Metrics collected - reductions in manual efforts. Increase in #-of blocks. 70% less manual. 30% continuous improvement. Saved on costs by 25% B2B and 50% B2C. 

Worker addressed the edge case scenario.


Describe a time you had to troubleshoot a problem.

She was on-call ; VMs started going down ( north-central-US and north-America -> 2 data centers )
9 nodes per data center ( auto-scaling )
She got a SEV-2 : a node in a region went down
She executed a failover

Diff centers went down for reasons unknown

Smoke tests Gusto running - logged - gateway complained unreachable node

She checked load balancer ( configured for /HTTP ) ( saw /TCP port up ) .

She updated the config from /HTTP to /TCP
all smoke tests fine and logged : services good.

443 port unstable - added exception handling - issue no longer seen.

Struggled to undertand the end issue
Our LB configured to hit HTTP 8080, but 8080 opened wrong
LB probed nodes and nodes unresponsive - nodes unavailable - gateway timed out ( 403 timeout )
But she got into VM and checked TCP 443 and got ping
She realized services up, BUT probing endpoint incorrect
Then discovered the node is healthy.






Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone. How did you resolve your disagreement : engineer, product manager, leadership, a customer, or so on. 

She had a feature to work on.
IRS fraud - in some countries, SMS costs are higher ( msgCost, phoneCallCost ). 
We had a global counter to add a configuration ( 2000 SMS/day ).

We wanted to add capabilities based on countries and scenarios to rate limit requests : B2B = configOne, B2C = configTwo
We wanted granularity level.

She paired with a seniorEng an a principalEng.
It was time-sensitive. 

Implemented a counter structure.
Didn’t go for a design doc - time-sensitive & quick delivery & very new.

principalEng on vacation. A diff opinion

Why 3 levels of nesting ( why add partner ) just country to structure - reduce our usage/complexity for aggregations against configs.

She thought more extensible ( new partners ) ( core functionality of service ) - mess business logic = data corruption ( and hard to recovery ) ( RTO ) .

She delivered quicly to reduce fraud and efforts.

Conversation
Product Roadmap
Whiteboard : 


She ran the application and showed the outputs to principalEng.
Her change huge ( 100+ LOC ) ( new interfaces/dependencies ).
His change - 10 LOC. 
Hard part :-( 



She was dissappointed, but learned
Adding FEATURE_FLAG needed. And recovery logic. And aggrs.
It would've been a stretch ( for delivery ) .

What she did was a good learning.
How he explained his perspective.
 
She wanted to quickly close.

Tell me about a time you received feedback. How did you handle feedback?

Keep her updates more frequent.
She can start a thread with stakeholders & contributors
Can tell the progress made ( this week ) ( and the next week ) 
She can communicate more and keep more folks updated
She started sending weekly updates
to stakeholders, managers, etc., 
What she learned!
when more people involved, it’s better to create a doc and walk through approaches
Reduce time - clear and straightforward
how it helped?
It gave her more visibility to the team. 
She got more credibility, growth, and trasparency in thoughts and features.

Have you ever mentored someone? If so, walk me through how you mentored this engineer. What’s your mentorship style.

She was an onboarding buddy ( 3-4 people ).
@ first, they go through trainings.
She shared onboarding docs : services, videos, etc., 
In the start - small features to pick up and ramp - if questions, she’d answer; in PRs, if deltas, she’d review.

If she saw someone who’s worried about asking questions/reaching out - she’d schedule a 15-min or 30-min weekly meeting - do they need assistance? Or she’d help them when they pinged. She’d redirect them to domain experts if questions.

Did you notice improvements?
things unclear at first : a lot of questions asked at first.
It’s a fraud system with high request rate - whomst to block.
We combat fraud : how to effectively block.
She saw the difference if they’re proactive and actively involved in design meetings and business decision-making; eager to learn. 
how they approach : sees the delta ( 3M before and after ) ( level-dependent ).
Mid-levels start leading the features.


What role do you usually take in a team?

Her team is split : 8-9m back - got a new direct manager.
ENT and CONS split
Was on ENT —> then to CONS —> hiring ramped up
She’s focused on mentorship, ramp up, and new comers.
Goal : avoid crossing budgets/thresholds - if a spike, engage thorough investigatation and set configs - keeps feet in business domain
She’s mixed - mentor.


Can you give an example of a time you succesfully delegated?

Fraud mitigation - in ENT - 6 partners on behalf.
Investigate and update config to mitigate fraud.
Used to consume her time ( all day ). Meetings ate time
And have to mentor
Less time - coding, infra, elsewhere
She spoke to her manager
Divide responsibiilty : based on partner, among team - reduce load.
one/2 hours - on mitigation . rest of time = feature work and Q&A and confusions.
( distributed across team ) feature work for quarter
She led the efforts.
Decisioning helped - she could plan her days better. 
REDUCE unpredictability 
( one day = peace, another day = spike, fraud everywhere )
8 hours + : investigate & update configs & rollouts ( BRF )
BRF : changeSet + approvals ( managers & skip ) - docWork.
routine work : not helping grow ( but brings down cost ) ( gets mundane ) ( but something new occasional )


Tell me how you prioritize tasks when everything seems important.
She focuses on liveSite : follow up with on-call ( address quickly )
Based on feature - she talks to her manager - everything seems important ; what’s your plan and timelines for the feature.
Security - she gives feedback.
If we prioritize X, we will reduce more costs and manual efforts.
She likes to check in with her manager : stack ranking of work items in beginning of quarter ( does this ranking look good ) ( or are re-alignments needed ).
She does a quarterly exercise : start of quarter ( or 1st week ).
If something ad-hoc, ask recc what’s reccommended - highest priority among work items.
what if manager unsure too :
bug in system - fraud patterns
Fraud - newTenants.
creationDate absent BUT other vectors allowed ( but creationDate dependency )
we wanted to avoid redundant calls ( for better SLAs )
We had an outage earlier
OpsCA and impPlan
She and her senior eng - learned bug situation - how to work with it.
Bug highest ( money loss )
Looked @ corePath : how to fix and time Taken
There was a struggle, but, manager agreed

trafficThrottling based on creationDate


10. Have you ever led a team? A subgroup or some group of people during a period of time.

FIRST COMPANY :
She led a team in first company as a frontend engineer.
Lead was on PTO ; personal reasons ( 3 months ).
16 people company.
She led to deliver an eCommerce platform end-to-end.

MSFT :
1 person under her - one seniorEng out ( matLeave ) questions came to her ( team is new )

Her role’s shifted - questions came to her. What to do/can be done.
Worker project high business impact ; others appreciated ( reduced on-call time ).





