TC Eval

Why WS :
(A) Persist an open channel
(B) If HTTP, spikes in traffic - open and close connections
(C) Long Polling - why not this? Bwser and other devices - limited # long conections
that can even be open. At our scale, it doesn’t work well.

Query patterns differ : user vs chat
different DB
chat = continuous interactions : user = one off
userProfile = ACID relDB
chatData = focus on avail
	tSeries : no time-based analysis
	DDB or something ( noSQL ) 

noSQL :
	chat not structured data + 1KB text
	bursty traffic many chats - easier to scale NoSQL
	
elasticSearch :
no string search directly : overkill
accessPattern : ( read-write ratio ) 
not extensive searching
accessPatterns infrequent ( <5% ) 
store period of data ( last 2/3 days )

chat history
api server
range : last 30 days or last 60 days













SELF ASSESSMENT :
TI = The Interviewer
TC = The Candidate
Overall performance : strong and meets senior-level expectations

WHAT TC DID WELL :
+ TC gathered functional and non-functional requirements well
+ TC engaged in good tradeoff discussions on design choices
+ TC addressed multiple problems and design deep dives, on ask from TI
+ TC demonstrates good system design understandings
+ TC understands fundamentals of web sockets, long polling, SSE, and HTTP
+ TC understands how to leverage Kafka to scale the system or address offline clients

WHERE TC  CAN USE IMPROVEMENT :
TC can spend more time asking clarifying questions and as more thorough clarifying questions
TC can work on the end-to-end flow and high-level diagramming skils.
TC took hints or nudges from the interviewer : they can proactively address gaps
TC can refresh their understanding of how to derive the best database, according to problem requirements/constraints ( e.g. data access patterns or data payload representations )




Case Study :

I want you to design me a chat system, with a strong emphasis on one-to-one chat.
Population one-to-one chat applications include Facebook messenger, WhatsApp, and WeChat.
If time permitting, we can look into group chats like Discord ( a gaming chat app ) or Slack ( an office chat app ).


Instructions :
Your system should be highly scaleable.
You may leverage pre-existing cloud services, technologies, and frameworks.
Focus on diagram correctness over diagram prettiness
Plesae type out your thought process.

Template Structure :

Assumptions :
10e6 ( 100,000 ) seconds in a day
Powers of 10 for rapid calculations
Feel free to leverage third-party and cloud technologies, frameworks, and services of your choice
300 ( 3e2 ) days in a year

Source Of The Problem :

Alex Xu, System Design Interview - Volume 2 : Chapter 10 : Design a Stock Exchange

Template Structure :

Clarifying Questions :

Requirements Gathering : Functional and Non-Functional
CAP Theorem => 

Back-of-the-Envelope Estimations / Capacity Planning :

Data Tiers / Data Models / Data Solutions :

Read-Write Volumes :
Traffic Patterns ( read-write ) 

High Level Design :

Design Deep Dives & Additional Talking Points:
